This package contains a couple of utilities that I wrote for accessing
data in the HDF5 format developed by NCSA at the University of
Illinois.  You will need the HDF5 library, available from:

	HDF Home Page:  http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/

The author of this package is Steven G. Johnson <stevenj@alum.mit.edu>.

To compile and install the package, just type the usual:
	configure
	make
	make install

Note that you need to have certain prerequisites, like the PNG and
zlib libraries, and/or GNU Octave, as described below.

The utilities include:

*** h5topng:

This is a program to extract a two-dimensional slice from an HDF5
dataset and export it as an image in PNG format.  It is designed for
quick-and-dirty examination of data, and for batch-processing of data
on the command-line.  However, it does support niceties like scaling,
skewing, superimposing contours from another file, and a couple of
different color maps.

PNG is a free image format, and is a recommendation of the World Wide
Web Consortium.  You will need to get the free libpng library if you
don't have it already.  libpng and lots of other stuff can be found at:

	PNG Home Page:  http://www.cdrom.com/pub/png/

You will also need zlib (libz) if you don't already have it, for image
compression:

	zlib Home Page:  http://www.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/zlib/

The h5topng source code includes the files writepng.c and writepng.h,
which provide self-contained subroutines for writing out a PNG image
from a two-dimensional array of floating-point values.  You might find
this useful if you want to directly output images from your own
scientific programs.

There's no man page for h5topng yet.  Run 'h5topng -h' for options.

*** h5read.oct:

This is an Octave plug-in for importing 2d slices from HDF5 datasets
into Octave, where you can then manipulate and plot the data.  GNU
Octave is a free Matlab-like data analysis and numerical computing
tool; you can download it or find more about it at:

	Octave Home Page:  http://www.che.wisc.edu/octave/

You will need to have Octave already installed in order to compile
this.  Once it is installed, you can either place h5read.oct with the
other .oct files that came with Octave, or you can just leave it in
the directory you run octave from.

In Octave, type "help h5read" for instructions.

*** arrayh5

The files arrayh5.c and arrayh5.h define some data structures and
utilities to let you grab multi-dimensional datasets (or slices
thereof) from HDF5 files using a simplified interface.  You might find
it useful in your own programs, or just to help you learn how to use
HDF5.

